Doc. max_execution_time and the role of timeout_before_checking_execution_speed (#54451)
ClickHouse/ClickHouse: docs/en/operations/settings/query-complexity.md

Maximum query execution time in seconds.
At this time, it is not checked for one of the sorting stages, or when merging and finalizing aggregate functions.

The `max_execution_time` parameter can be a bit tricky to understand. 
It operates based on interpolation relative to the current query execution speed (this behaviour is controlled by [timeout_before_checking_execution_speed](#timeout-before-checking-execution-speed)). 
ClickHouse will interrupt a query if the projected execution time exceeds the specified `max_execution_time`.

> By default, the timeout_before_checking_execution_speed is set to 1 second. This means that after just one second of query execution, ClickHouse will begin estimating the total execution time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the timeout_before_checking_execution_speed is set to 10 seconds. This means that after 10 seconds of query execution, ClickHouse will begin estimating the total execution time. 
```
